Fluid + MS Teams Recipe (#8236)
microsoft/FluidFramework: docs/content/docs/recipes/teams.md

---
title: Using Fluid with Microsoft Teams
menuPosition: 1
---

> This is a recipe for integrating Fluid-powered real-time collaboration features into a [Microsoft Teams tab application](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoftteams/platform/tabs/what-are-tabs). The application enables every connected client to make changes to the container's dynamic data stucture (DDS) that will reflect on all other clients almost instantly. You'll also learn how to connect the Fluid data layer with a view layer made in [React](https://reactjs.org/).

Author: good point, I replaced the intro with the version from the example app walkthrough.

> For an example of this recipe, check out the [Teams Fluid Hello World](https://github.com/microsoft/FluidExamples/tree/main/teams-fluid-hello-world) in our FluidExamples repo.

Author: good point, this recipe is indeed laying the foundation for a more complex app.

{{< callout note >}}

This tutorial assumes that you are familiar with the [Fluid Framework Overview]({{< relref "/docs/_index.md" >}}) and that you have completed the [QuickStart]({{< relref "quick-start.md" >}}). You should also be familiar with the basics of [React](https://reactjs.org/), [React Hooks](https://reactjs.org/docs/hooks-intro.html), and [Microsoft Teams Tab](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoftteams/platform/tabs/what-are-tabs).

{{< /callout >}}

## Create the project

1. Open a Command Prompt and navigate to the parent folder where you want to create the project; e.g., `c:\My Microsoft Teams Projects`.
1. We will create a vanilla Teams tab application by running the following command. Click [here](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoftteams/platform/tabs/how-to/create-channel-group-tab?tabs=nodejs) for more information on setting up Teams application.

    ```dotnetcli
    yo teams
    ```

1. After creating the project, navigate to it with the command `cd <your project name>`.
1. The project will use three Fluid libraries:

    |Library |Description |
    |---|---|

>     | `fluid-framework`    |Contains the SharedMap [distributed data structure]({{< relref "dds.md" >}}) that synchronizes data across clients. *This object will hold the most recent timestamp update made by any client.*|

Author: right, I forgot to rephrase the descriptions here to match the recipe after porting it over from the other walkthrough 😅

    | `@fluidframework/azure-client`   |Defines the starting schema for the [Fluid container][].|
    | `@fluidframework/test-client-utils` |Defines the `InsecureTokenProvider` needed to create the connection to a Fluid service.|
    {.table}

    Run the following command to install the libraries.

    ```dotnetcli
    npm install @fluidframework/azure-client fluid-framework @fluidframework/test-client-utils
    ```

## Code the project

> 1. Open the file `\src\client/<your tab name>` in your code editor. Create a new file named `Util.ts`. Then add the following import statements:

Author: I changed it to forward slashes since more people might be used to that. 

What do you mean imports are not in this section?

> 1. Open the file `\src\client/<your tab name>` in your code editor. Create a new file named `Util.ts`. Then add the following import statements:

Reviewer: uhh i have no idea what i meant by that.  must have just misread something while reviewing

> 1. Open the file `\src\client/<your tab name>` in your code editor. Create a new file named `Util.ts`. Then add the following import statements:

Author: haha no worries, I'll mark this as resolved then

1. Add the following import statement in the content page.

```ts
import { IFluidContainer } from "fluid-framework";
import { getContainer, containerIdQueryParamKey } from "./Util";
```

1. Now remove all the code below the import statements inside the content page and replace it with the following. Make sure to replace <your tab name> with the tab name you defined for your project.

```ts
export const <your tab name> = () => {
  // TODO 1: Initialize Microsoft Teams.
  // TODO 2: Initialize inTeams boolean.
  // TODO 3: Define container as a React state.
  // TODO 4: Define a method that gets the Fluid container
  // TODO 5: Get Fluid container on content page startup.
  // TODO 6: Pass the container to the React component as argument.
}
```

1. Replace `TODO 1` with the following code. For the content page to display in Teams, we must include the [Microsoft Teams JavaScript client SDK](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/javascript/api/overview/msteams-client?view=msteams-client-js-latest&preserve-view=true) and include a call to initialize it after your page loads.

```ts
microsoftTeams.initialize();
```

> 1. Replace `TODO 2` with the following code. Because Teams application is just an IFrame injection of a webpage, we need to initialize the `inTeams` boolean constant in order to know if we are inside Microsoft Teams or not, and if the Teams resources, such as the `contentUrl`, are available to us.

Author: replaced with Tyler's version

```ts
const [{ inTeams }] = useTeams();
```

> 1. Replace `TODO 3` with the following code. To dynmically update the container and the data objects inside it, let's define the container as a React state.

Author: replaced with Tyler's version

## Start the Fluid server and run the application

If you are running your Teams application locally with Azure Client local mode, make sure to run the following command in the Command Prompt to start the Fluid service. Note that `tinylicious` is the name of the Fluid service that runs on localhost.

```dotnetcli
npx tinylicious
```

To run and start the Teams application, open another terminal and follow the instructions [here](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoftteams/platform/tabs/how-to/create-channel-group-tab?tabs=nodejs#upload-your-application-to-teams).

Now follow the [instructions](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoftteams/platform/tabs/how-to/create-channel-group-tab?tabs=nodejs#upload-your-application-to-teams) to upload the application to a Teams Tab.

{{< callout warning >}}

Hostnames with `ngrok`'s free tunnels are not preserved. Each run will generate a different URL. This means that anytime a new `ngrok` tunnel is created, the older container will no longer be accessible. For production scenario, please visit [here]()
to learn about deploying a static web application and using the static URL.

> {{< callout >}}

Reviewer: needs to be closed properly

Author: thanks for spotting that 😀

---
title: Using Fluid with Microsoft Teams

> menuPosition: 1

Reviewer: more of a tyler question, but i'd guess the teams example should be further down the list here

Author: I moved it to position 4, but we can change this later if needed

---

> This is a tutorial for integrating Fluid-powered real-time collaboration features into a [Microsoft Teams tab application](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoftteams/platform/tabs/what-are-tabs). By the end of this tutorial you will be able to integrate any Fluid-powered applications into Micrisoft Teams and collaborate with others in real-time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is a tutorial for integrating Fluid-powered real-time collaboration features into a [Microsoft Teams tab application](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoftteams/platform/tabs/what-are-tabs). By the end of this tutorial you will be able to integrate any Fluid-powered applications into Microsoft Teams and collaborate with others in real-time.
```

Author: good catch!

Concepts you will learn:
1. How to integrate a Fluid client into a Microsoft Teams tab application
2. How to run and connect your Teams application to a Fluid service (Azure Fluid Relay)

> 3. How to create and get Fluid Containers and pass it to a React component

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. How to create and get Fluid Containers and pass them to a React component
```

> For an example of how this recipe may be used to build a more complex application, check out the [Teams Fluid Hello World](https://github.com/microsoft/FluidExamples/tree/main/teams-fluid-hello-world) in our FluidExamples repo.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For an example of how this recipe may be used to build a more complex application, check out the [Teams Fluid Hello World](https://github.com/microsoft/FluidExamples/tree/main/teams-fluid-hello-world) example in our FluidExamples repo.
```

{{< callout note >}}

This tutorial assumes that you are familiar with the [Fluid Framework Overview]({{< relref "/docs/_index.md" >}}) and that you have completed the [QuickStart]({{< relref "quick-start.md" >}}). You should also be familiar with the basics of [React](https://reactjs.org/), [React Hooks](https://reactjs.org/docs/hooks-intro.html), and [Microsoft Teams Tabs](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoftteams/platform/tabs/what-are-tabs).

{{< /callout >}}

## Create the project

1. Open a Command Prompt and navigate to the parent folder where you want to create the project, e.g., `/My Microsoft Teams Projects`.
1. Create a vanilla Teams tab application by running the below command. See [the Microsoft Teams documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoftteams/platform/tabs/how-to/create-channel-group-tab?tabs=nodejs) for more information on setting up Teams applications.

    ```dotnetcli
    yo teams
    ```

1. After creating the project, navigate to it with the command `cd <your project name>`.
1. The project will use three Fluid libraries:

    |Library |Description |
    |---|---|

>     | `fluid-framework`    |Contains the IFluidContainer and other [distributed data structure]({{< relref "dds.md" >}}) that synchronizes data across clients.|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    | `fluid-framework`    |Contains the IFluidContainer and other [distributed data structures]({{< relref "dds.md" >}}) that synchronize data across clients.|
```

    | `@fluidframework/azure-client`   |Defines the starting schema for the [Fluid container][].|
    | `@fluidframework/test-client-utils` |Defines the `InsecureTokenProvider` needed to create the connection to a Fluid service.|
    {.table}

    Run the following command to install the libraries.

    ```dotnetcli
    npm install @fluidframework/azure-client fluid-framework @fluidframework/test-client-utils
    ```

## Code the project

1. Open the file `/src/client/<your tab name>` in your code editor. Create a new file named `Util.ts`. Then add the following import statements:

    ```ts
    //`Util.ts

    import { IFluidContainer } from "fluid-framework";
    import { AzureClient, AzureClientProps, LOCAL_MODE_TENANT_ID } from "@fluidframework/azure-client";
    import { InsecureTokenProvider } from "@fluidframework/test-client-utils";
    ```

### Defining Fluid functions and parameters

> 1. Since this app is intended to be used in the context of Microsoft Teams, having all Fluid related imports, initialization, and functions in one place makes it easier to use in the future. Add the following code below the import statements. The comments will define all the functions and constants needed to interact with the Fluid service and container.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Since this app is intended to be used in the context of Microsoft Teams, having all Fluid-related imports, initialization, and functions in one place makes it easier to use in the future. Add the following code below the import statements. The comments will define all the functions and constants needed to interact with the Fluid service and container.
```

```ts
// TODO 1: Define the parameter key(s).
// TODO 2: Define container schema.
// TODO 3: Define connectionConfig (AzureClientProps).
// TODO 4: Create Azure client.
// TODO 5: Define create container function.
// TODO 6: Define get container function.
```

> 1. Replace `TODO 1:` with the following code. Note that the constant is being exported because it will be used to append to the `contentUrl` in the Microsoft Teams settings and later for parsing the container ID in the content page. It's a common pattern to store important query parameter keys as constants, rather than typing the raw string each time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Replace `TODO: 1` with the following code. Note that the constant is being exported because it will be appended to the `contentUrl` in the Microsoft Teams settings and later for parsing the container ID in the content page. It's a common pattern to store important query parameter keys as constants, rather than typing the raw string each time.
```
`TODO: 1` to be consistent with the rest of the doc (though maybe the other ones should be revised to the `TODO 1: format instead?)

Author: I think `TODO 1:` makes more sense so that 1 isn't confused with the rest of the instruction

        suggestedDisplayName: "<your tab name>",
        removeUrl: host + "/<your tab name>/remove.html?theme={theme}",
        entityId: entityId.current
    });
    saveEvent.notifySuccess();
};
```

Please make sure to replace `<your tab name>` with the actual tab name from your project.

{{< callout warning >}}

Since the content page URL is used to store the container ID, this record will be removed if the Teams tab is deleted.
Additionally, every content page can only support one container ID.

{{< /callout >}}

### Refactor content page to reflect Fluid application

Open the file `src/client/<your tab name>/<your tab name>.tsx` in your code editor. A typical Fluid-powered application consists of a view and a Fluid data structure. Let's just focus on getting/loading the Fluid container and leave all the Fluid related interactions in a React component.

1. Add the following import statements in the content page.

```ts
import { IFluidContainer } from "fluid-framework";
import { getContainer, containerIdQueryParamKey } from "./Util";
```

> 1. Now remove all the code below the import statements inside the content page and replace it with the following. Make sure to replace <your tab name> with the tab name you defined for your project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Now remove all the code below the import statements inside the content page and replace it with the following. Make sure to replace `<your tab name>` with the tab name you defined for your project.
```

```ts
export const <your tab name> = () => {
  // TODO 1: Initialize Microsoft Teams.
  // TODO 2: Initialize inTeams boolean.
  // TODO 3: Define container as a React state.
  // TODO 4: Define a method that gets the Fluid container
  // TODO 5: Get Fluid container on content page startup.
  // TODO 6: Pass the container to the React component as argument.
}
```

1. Replace `TODO 1` with the following code. For the content page to display in Teams, you must include the [Microsoft Teams JavaScript client SDK](https://docs.microsoft.com/javascript/api/overview/msteams-client?view=msteams-client-js-latest&preserve-view=true) and include a call to initialize it after your page loads.

```ts
microsoftTeams.initialize();
```

> 1. Replace `TODO 2` with the following code. Because Teams application is just an IFrame injection of a webpage, you need to initialize the `inTeams` boolean constant in order to know if the application is inside Microsoft Teams or not, and if the Teams resources, such as the `contentUrl`, are available.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Replace `TODO 2` with the following code. Because the Teams application is just an IFrame injection of a webpage, you need to initialize the `inTeams` boolean constant in order to know if the application is inside Microsoft Teams or not, and if the Teams resources, such as the `contentUrl`, are available.
```

```ts
if (inTeams === false) {
  return (
      <div>This application only works in the context of Microsoft Teams</div>
  );
}

if (fluidContainer !== undefined) {
  return (
      <FluidComponent fluidContainer={fluidContainer} />
  );
}

return (
  <div>Loading FluidComponent...</div>
);
```

### Creating React component for Fluid view and data

Now that you have married the basic creation flow of Teams and Fluid, you can now create your own React component that handles the interactions between the application view and Fluid data. From this point on, the logic and flow behaves just like any other Fluid-powered application. With the basic structure established, you can create any of the [Fluid examples](https://github.com/microsoft/FluidExamples) as a Teams application by changing the `ContainerSchema` and the application view's interaction with the DDSes/data objects on the content page.

## Start the Fluid server and run the application

If you are running your Teams application locally with Azure Client local mode, make sure to run the following command in the Command Prompt to start the Fluid service.

```dotnetcli
npx @fluidframework/azure-local-service@latest
```

> To run and start the Teams application, open another terminal and follow the [instructions](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoftteams/platform/tabs/how-to/create-channel-group-tab?tabs=nodejs#upload-your-application-to-teams) to run the application server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To run and start the Teams application, open another terminal and follow the [instructions to run the application server](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoftteams/platform/tabs/how-to/create-channel-group-tab?tabs=nodejs#upload-your-application-to-teams).
```

> Now follow the [instructions](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoftteams/platform/tabs/how-to/create-channel-group-tab?tabs=nodejs#upload-your-application-to-teams) to upload the application to a Teams Tab.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now follow the [instructions to upload the application to a Teams Tab](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoftteams/platform/tabs/how-to/create-channel-group-tab?tabs=nodejs#upload-your-application-to-teams).
```

{{< callout warning >}}

Hostnames with `ngrok`'s free tunnels are not preserved. Each run will generate a different URL. This means that anytime a new `ngrok` tunnel is created, the older container will no longer be accessible. For production scenarios, please visit [the section below](#using-azureClient-with-azure-fluid-relay)

{{< /callout >}}

## Next steps

### Using AzureClient with Azure Fluid Relay

> Because this is a Teams tab application, collaboration and interaction is the main focus. Consider replacing the local mode `AzureClientProps` provided above with non-local credentials from your Azure service instance, so others can join in and interact with you in the application! Check out [how to provision your Azure Fluid Relay service](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-fluid-relay/how-tos/provision-fluid-azure-portal).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because this is a Teams tab application, collaboration and interaction are the main focuses. Consider replacing the local mode `AzureClientProps` provided above with non-local credentials from your Azure service instance, so others can join in and interact with you in the application! Check out [how to provision your Azure Fluid Relay service](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-fluid-relay/how-tos/provision-fluid-azure-portal).
```

## Create the project

1. Open a Command Prompt and navigate to the parent folder where you want to create the project; e.g., `c:\My Microsoft Teams Projects`.

> 1. Create a vanilla Teams tab application by running the following command. Click [here](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoftteams/platform/tabs/how-to/create-channel-group-tab?tabs=nodejs) for more information on setting up Teams application.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Create a vanilla Teams tab application by running the below command. See [the Microsoft Teams documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoftteams/platform/tabs/how-to/create-channel-group-tab?tabs=nodejs) for more information on setting up Teams applications.
```

Try to avoid links like [here]. Write a "normal" sentence then

Author: got it. thanks 😀

### Defining Fluid functions and parameters

> 1. Since this is building in the context of Microsoft Teams, having all Fluid related importations, initialization, and functions in one place will be easier to use down the road. Add the following code below the import statements. The comments will defined all the functions and constants needed to interact with the Fluid service and container.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Since this app is intended to be used in the context of Microsoft Teams, having all Fluid related imports, initialization, and functions in one place makes it easier to use in the future. Add the following code below the import statements. The comments will define all the functions and constants needed to interact with the Fluid service and container.
```

// TODO 6: Define get container function.
```

> 1. Replace `TODO 1:` with the following code. Note that the constant is being exported because it will be used to append to the `contentUrl` in the Microsoft Teams settings and later for parsing the container ID in the content page. It's a common pattern to store important query parameter keys as constants, rather than typing the raw string each time. This is also a good place to define the DDS keys.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Replace `TODO 1:` with the following code. Note that the constant is being exported because it will be used to append to the `contentUrl` in the Microsoft Teams settings and later for parsing the container ID in the content page. It's a common pattern to store important query parameter keys as constants, rather than typing the raw string each time.
```

Unless your code sample illustrates this, don't mention it.

```ts
export const containerIdQueryParamKey = "containerId";
```

> 1. Replace `TODO: 2` with the following code. Before the client can create any containers, it needs a `containerSchema` that will define, by name, the data objects used in this application. Think of the the `containerSchema` as defining the data structures for how you want your information to be stored. For demonstration purpose, we have a SharedMap as the `initialObjects`, feel free to replace the SharedMap with any other DDSes or data objects. Note also that `map` is the ID of the `SharedMap` object and it must be unique within the container as with any other DDSes.

Reviewer 2: For all of these, consider moving the "Replace todo with the following code" to the end. You're telling them to do something, but then they have to read another paragraph before they see the code they're supposed to copy/paste.

Author: make sense, moved to the end.

> 1. Replace `TODO: 2` with the following code. Before the client can create any containers, it needs a `containerSchema` that will define, by name, the data objects used in this application. Think of the the `containerSchema` as defining the data structures for how you want your information to be stored. For demonstration purpose, we have a SharedMap as the `initialObjects`, feel free to replace the SharedMap with any other DDSes or data objects. Note also that `map` is the ID of the `SharedMap` object and it must be unique within the container as with any other DDSes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Replace `TODO: 2` with the following code. Before the client can create any containers, it needs a `containerSchema` that will define the shared objects used in this application. This example uses a SharedMap as the `initialObjects`, but any shared object can be used. Note also that `map` is the ID of the `SharedMap` object and it must be unique within the container as with any other DDSes.
```

```ts
const containerSchema = {
    initialObjects: { map: SharedMap }
};
```

> 1. Replace `TODO: 3` with the following code. Before the client can be used, it needs an `AzureClientProps` that will define the type of connection the client will be using. Think of the `connectionConfig` as the properties required to connect to the service. Note that local mode of Azure Client is used here. To enable collaboration across all client, please replace it with Fluid Relay Service credentials. Click [here](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-fluid-relay/how-tos/provision-fluid-azure-portal) for more information about setting up the Azure Fluid Relay service.

Reviewer 2: Fix up the [here].

> 1. Replace `TODO: 3` with the following code. Before the client can be used, it needs an `AzureClientProps` that will define the type of connection the client will be using. Think of the `connectionConfig` as the properties required to connect to the service. Note that local mode of Azure Client is used here. To enable collaboration across all client, please replace it with Fluid Relay Service credentials. Click [here](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-fluid-relay/how-tos/provision-fluid-azure-portal) for more information about setting up the Azure Fluid Relay service.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Replace `TODO: 3` with the following code. In order to initialize the client, you need to pass an `AzureClientProps` object that will define the type of connection the client should use. `AzureClientProps` are the properties required to connect to the Azure Fluid Relay service. Note that this example uses the local mode of Azure Client. To enable collaboration across multiple clients, you can provide Azure Fluid Relay credentials. Click [here](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-fluid-relay/how-tos/provision-fluid-azure-portal) for more information about setting up the Azure Fluid Relay service.
```

### Creating Fluid container in the configuration page

> Open the file `src/client/<your tab name>/<your tab name>Config.tsx` in your code editor. The standard Teams tab application flow goes from configuration to content page. To allow collaborations, persisting the container while loading into the content page is crucial. The best solution to persist the container is to append the container ID onto the `contentUrl` and `websiteUrl`, the URLs of the content page, as a query parameter. Given that the save button in the Teams configuration page is the gateway between configuration page and content page, it is a great place to create the container and append the container ID in the settings.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Open the file `src/client/<your tab name>/<your tab name>Config.tsx` in your code editor. The standard Teams tab application flow goes from configuration to content page. To enable collaboration, persisting the container while loading into the content page is crucial. The best solution to persist the container is to append the container ID onto the `contentUrl` and `websiteUrl`, the URLs of the content page, as a query parameter. Since the save button in the Teams configuration page is the gateway between the configuration page and the content page, it is a great place to create the container and append the container ID in the settings.
```

1. Add the following import statement.

```ts
import { createContainer, containerIdQueryParamKey } from "./Util";
```

> 1. Replace the `onSaveHandler` method with the following code. Note that the only lines added here are calling the create container method defined earlier in `Utils.ts`. Then appending the returned container ID to the `contentUrl` and `websiteUrl` as a query parameter.

Reviewer 2: Can you highlight the code that was added? See [the docs system docs](https://fluidframework.com/community/doc-system#syntax-formatting-and-line-highlighting) for more info on the syntax.

Author: learned something new 😀

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Replace the `onSaveHandler` method with the following code. Note that the only lines added here are calling the create container method defined earlier in `Utils.ts` and then appending the returned container ID to the `contentUrl` and `websiteUrl` as a query parameter.
```
hijacking this comment because it seems like github won't let me make another comment on the same lines as this one??

Author: no worries 😀

{{< callout warning >}}

> Since content page URL is used to store the container ID, this record will be removed if the Teams tab is deleted.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Since the content page URL is used to store the container ID, this record will be removed if the Teams tab is deleted.
```

Additionally, every content page can only support one container ID.

{{< /callout >}}

### Refactor content page to reflect Fluid application

> Open the file `src/client/<your tab name>/<your tab name>.tsx` in your code editor. A standard Fluid powered application consists of view and Fluid data component. Let's just focus on getting/loading the Fluid container and leave all the Fluid related interactions in a React component.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Open the file `src/client/<your tab name>/<your tab name>.tsx` in your code editor. A typical Fluid-powered application consists of a view and a Fluid data component. Let's just focus on getting/loading the Fluid container and leave all the Fluid related interactions in a React component.
```

"data component" is a new term. What are you referring to?

Author: changed it to `fluid data structure`

}
```

> 1. Replace `TODO 1` with the following code. For the content page to display in Teams, you must include the [Microsoft Teams JavaScript client SDK](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/javascript/api/overview/msteams-client?view=msteams-client-js-latest&preserve-view=true) and include a call to initialize it after your page loads.

Reviewer 2: for all the docs.microsoft.com URLs, you should remove the en-us from the URL so that people get localized sites when appropriate.

```ts
microsoftTeams.initialize();
```

1. Replace `TODO 2` with the following code. Because Teams application is just an IFrame injection of a webpage, you need to initialize the `inTeams` boolean constant in order to know if the application is inside Microsoft Teams or not, and if the Teams resources, such as the `contentUrl`, are available.

```ts
const [{ inTeams }] = useTeams();
```

1. Replace `TODO 3` with the following code. Using a React state for the container will provide the ability to dynmically update the container and the data objects inside it.

```ts
const [fluidContainer, setFluidContainer] = useState<IFluidContainer | undefined>(undefined);
```

> 1. Replace `TODO 4` with the following code. Note that here you will parse the URL to get the query parameter string, defined by `containerIdQueryParamKey`, and retreive the container ID. With the container ID, you can now load the container to get the container. Once you have the container, set the `fluidContainer` React state, defined above.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Replace `TODO 4` with the following code. Here you will parse the URL to get the query parameter string, defined by `containerIdQueryParamKey`, and retrieve the container ID. With the container ID, you can now load the container to get the container. Once you have the container, set the `fluidContainer` React state, defined above.
```

};
```

1. Replace `TODO 5` with the following code. Now that you've defined how to get the Fluid container, you need to tell React to call `getFluidContainer` on load, and then store the result in state based on if the application is inside Teams.

> React's [useState hook](https://reactjs.org/docs/hooks-state.html) will provide the storage needed, and [useEffect](https://reactjs.org/docs/hooks-effect.html) will allow you to call `getFluidContainer` on render, passing the returned value into `setFluidContainer`.

Reviewer 2: This results in storing data "twice" right? Once in Fluid, and once in React state?

Author: so I believe React `setState` is a shallow copy, so it'll be copied by reference. However, even if it's not, the `const container = await getContainer(containerId);` would only be scoped within the `getFluidContainer` function and would be disposed after the function scope ends. So it's important that we set the value into the state so the memory location and contents are preserved.

}, [inTeams]);
```

> 1. Replace `TODO 6` with the following code. Note here that it's important to ensure that the content page is loaded inside Microsoft Teams and that our Fluid container is defined before passing it into the React component (defined as `FluidComponent` below).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Replace `TODO 6` with the following code. Note here that it's important to ensure that the content page is loaded inside Microsoft Teams and that the Fluid container is defined before passing it into the React component (defined as `FluidComponent` below).
```

### Creating React component for Fluid view and data

> Now that you have married the basic creation flow of Teams and Fluid, you can now create your own React component that handles the interactions between the application view and Fluid data. From this point on, the logic and flow behaves just like any other Fluid-powered applications. With the basic structure established, you can create any of our [Fluid examples](https://github.com/microsoft/FluidExamples) as a Teams application by changing the `ContainerSchema` and the application view's interaction with the DDSes/data objects on the content page.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now that you have married the basic creation flow of Teams and Fluid, you can now create your own React component that handles the interactions between the application view and Fluid data. From this point on, the logic and flow behaves just like any other Fluid-powered application. With the basic structure established, you can create any of the [Fluid examples](https://github.com/microsoft/FluidExamples) as a Teams application by changing the `ContainerSchema` and the application view's interaction with the DDSes/data objects on the content page.
```

{{< callout note >}}

> It is important to hide the credentials you are passing into `AzureClientProps` from being accidentally checked in. The Teams project comes with a `.env` where you can store your credentials as environment variables and the file itself is already included in the `.gitignore`. Refer to the section below if you want to use the environment variables in Teams.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It is important to hide the credentials you are passing into `AzureClientProps` from being accidentally committed to source control. The Teams project comes with a `.env` file where you can store your credentials as environment variables and the file itself is already included in the `.gitignore`. Refer to the section below if you want to use the environment variables in Teams.
```
